Something for us to discuss. And I'm limited on tokens, so please don't get carried away with your responses. As i review these narratives that did save, and think about it, all this phase does is create and populate rows in teh tracker, and provides narratives about the current state... which is small because the alert just happened today and there's not too much one can draw from the data so far, at least how it's being approached right now.

I have two thoughts:
1) The act of creating a tracker entry with certain predictable information is a little too easy for an AI agent. That can be done programmatically; even a text based narrative can be done that way as well ("Alert for [SYMBOL] fired on [DATE TIME] for [CONTRACT HASH] showing [VOLUME] contracts for [LAST PRICE] worth [PREMIUM] total were traded against an OI of [OI]. UL price was [UNDERLYING PRICE] so contract is [MONEYNESS]. [SYMBOL] is in [SECTOR] [INDUSTRY]...") in a template. We could lay down the foundation of the narratives without using AI at all, theoretically. Yeah, we do this sortof already with the flow_alerts table with the evaluator module's contributions... but this is intended to be an advanceed version of it, I guess? The story of this whole system is that of one that evolves as I learn more about programming, AI, and data analysis, so I'm not against it. It's not like I use Evaluator anyway.
2) Following the life cycle of the alert, the life cycle of the option, alone, is not really enough. We want to understand the SYMBOL, and the activity around it, the whole picture, which is informed by option contract activity and alerts draw our attention. So when agents analyze an alert, they should consider the full context of the symbol, and other alerts that came before it. So it's worth going back to the concept document - are we on the right track here? Is this the workflow we're looking for?

Now again, I'm still learning and thinking and brainstorming, and your role here is to help me understand what can be done, best practices, programming help, but also to help talk me through the logic and process to make sure it all makes sense. So thank you for your critical and supportive feedback.

I think we need dossiers on SYMBOLS that have been brought to our attention by alerts, and the alerts identify large blocks of options traded that help push the narrative of predictive action. Remember, the ultimate theory behind this whole project is, in the vast ocean of options trading, there are signals left by "smart money" that can be used to inform better trades, if only we can identify them and use them properly. The agents should be here to watch over the trades, find the signals, track them, and identify when we should act. 

Let me think through a simple theoretical workflow:

1. Alert fires on 2026-01-01 for CCL showing 40,000 contracts traded for CCL|14.0|2026-01-19|CALL worth a bunch of money against an OI of like 500, clearly a purchase, while the UL is $12. The basic assumption is that someone with deep pockets and a good idea about the company or industry suspects that the price will reach $14+ by 1/19/2026, and that could be a good sign for us to invest as well. Alone, however, this assumption is not enough, so a symbol-level tracker is established. CCL is on our radar. This could be done at alert, but could also be done at the end of the day, since these rarely need to be acted on immediately.

2. More information is needed about the current state right now. 
2a. Have other alerts fired recently? If so, there would be a tracker open already, and we'd be appending to it with this one.
2b. Are there other signs of unusual concentration of activity? It is always possible that our system did not catch accumulation of purchases, for many reasons, so we can't assume there isn't. We have to look. Examine the Open Interest for other strikes, prices, and types (CALL/PUT) to see where the sentiment is. This requires agentic analysis. If you find that a high number of PUT options were bought for the same expiration date, that could indicate that there is less certainty about the directionality of the bet, thus invalidating our basic assumption from 1. We only know that is happening if we look beyond the one alert. Agents may dig deeper, looking into the database to see when that OI was established... maybe it was made before we started tracking, maybe it was slow accumulation... this is aprt of the narrative.
2c. How has the price moved recently? Is it at a high or a low, has the price dropped and poised for a reversion to the mean?
2d. Is there news about the symbol? Are earnings upcoming? Sector/industry correlation? But the above are more important.

3. Symbol-level tracker is built out using information beyond the initial alert, summarizing the big picture. The agent reviews the information and a decision is made: Act, Monitor, or Close. 
3a. Most of the time it's Monitor. Agents will update the tracker when an update needs to be made, and thinks about it when other activity happens to decide if its relevant to the symbol, watchign to see if a sign to Act appears, or if the symbol ceases to be interesting and moves to Close.
3b. Agents only alert me if there is an act to be done, such as buy, sell, or do additional research or changes to the system to support the Agent's analysis.
3c. Agents close the tracker for the symbol if the thesis falls apart, activity dissipates, or they decide that the activity is not worth following (retail activity, dumb money, missed opportunity, idk).

4. As days go by, activity in the market happens, some of which affects the symbols we're tracking. 4a. Alerts are the chief instigator of action, so we start with this. For instance, say an alert fires on 2026-01-10 for CCL - 20,000 contracts CCL|14.0|2026-01-19|CALL have just been traded, against an OI of 41,000. There's no way to tell for sure if they are buying or selling, but the contracts are in the money now and their value has increased by 110%, so one can assume they are selling half, collecting profits, and seeing if the price rises further for the other half. The Agent sees that I bought contracts for this and so sends me a message to Act - "consider taking profits, smart money did so maybe you should too". This can only happen if an agent acts following alerts firing in the flow monitor process.
4b. However, lots of activity happens that don't get alerted, and thats a blind spot right now. What if that position slowly unravelled? Who's watching that? Nothing in our system looks for that, nor slow builds either, but it CAN be seen in tables like option_contracts and option_symbol_summary. It's too granular to monitor at a large scale, but is it manageable for just symbols that we have alerts for? We have 100 unique symbols right now in our alerts table. We need to know if an option price we're tracking has a steep drop in price ("goes on sale") and the alert contract holders don't sell - that's conviction worth following, and a potential mean reversion play. I would want a message to Act from the Agent telling me that this has happened and I shoudl consider taking advantage of it. This makes "monitor" actually mean something, not just sitting around waiting for alerts that only exist to tell a small part of the story. Is that something we ask an agent to do once or twice during the trading day, review all of the symbols we're tracking and note their progress towards their price goals?


I just said "price goals" for the first time. Is THAT what the narratives are? Instead of "Large OTM call volume in AMD suggests traders anticipating a bullish technical breakout" (duh) should we instead be making notes like "High OI concentration between $228 and $232 strikes suggest a price goal of $230 by 2026-01-19". Then, our agents at least have something to look for, to work towards. Would that box them in? Would they be comfortable revising the goal? They'd have to, these change all the time. Isn't that what this is all about, trying to guess what price a stock will be by a certain point?? When in the workflow would these price goals be set? Would we store them as normalized fields in the tracker? 

I have to stop typing and let you share your thoughts. 